MAG – 097 – We All Ignore the Pit
ARCHIVIST
Statement of Jackson Ellis, regarding the geographical oddities in the town of Bucoda, Washington. Original statement given 3rd March 2009. Audio recording by Jonathan Sims, Head Archivist of the Magnus Institute, London.
Statement begins.
ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT)
Last year I moved to the small town of Bucoda, about 15 miles outside of Olympia in the State of Washington. I’d never heard of the town before, and I certainly had no idea about what I would soon start to think of as… ‘The Pit’. The choice to move was not entirely mine, as my circumstances had driven me into a very particular situation. […]
[…]
The town was almost exactly what you would expect. A small grid without traffic signs or markings, patches of grass and dirt with small houses irregularly dotted about. What infrastructure there was boasted only volunteers, and I’d be surprised if there was more than five hundred people in total who called it home. The forest pressed in on all sides, like it did everywhere in the Pacific Northwest, I suppose, but it was an effect I was struggling to get used to. As I pulled up to Tommy’s house for the first time, it was… strange. I felt like even before I turned off the engine I didn’t belong there. Like I’d walked backstage at a theatre: nobody stopped me, but I couldn’t shake the impression that I’d gone somewhere I wasn’t supposed to be. Even when Tommy came out, and started to unpack the trunk, it seemed to me that he blended into the town in a way I just didn’t.
[…]
I spent the next few days sleeping, drinking, and gently exploring the tiny town which now counted me among its residents. It was quiet, though by no means deserted; I regularly saw other people walking the streets, though there was no sidewalk to speak of. It may have just been my imagination, but whenever they saw me, it seemed like they paused for just a moment, staring at me, before they continued on their way. They seemed friendly enough apart from that, and there never seemed to be any subtext or hidden meaning behind their greetings. Thinking back now, though, I’m not sure I ever saw any children, though maybe I’m reading too much into it.
I found the… pit almost immediately. It wasn’t like it was something that could easily be missed, sitting there at the intersection of River Street and 6th, gaping up at the bright blue sky. It looked like a sinkhole, but almost completely circular, and instead of the sheer drop of most such holes, this one sloped gently down towards a small opening at the centre, maybe ten or fifteen feet below street level. In some ways it seemed more like a crater than a sinkhole, but it was so neat and regular, I didn’t think it could be the result of any impact or explosion. It was huge, bigger than the street that should have been there, and the thing that struck me as odd, was that the road continued around it. It seemed to split apart just before the pit, and come together on the other side of it. I mean, I don’t know if you can judge the age of a hole just by looking at it, but it didn’t seem that old. The road did, though, or at least it definitely hadn’t been put down recently.
There was no indication it had been laid separately to the rest of the town. The pit was just there.
As I stood, staring at the hole in the ground, I heard a car coming up the road behind me. I stepped to the side as it drove past and around the edges of the pit, before continuing on. I glanced briefly inside the driver’s side window, but there was no surprise on her face, no irritation at the obstacle. It seemed to have barely registered. I left soon afterwards, weirdly unnerved by its… smooth, circular presence.
I asked Tommy about it the next day. He was reaching into the kitchen to grab me a beer, when I told him I’d stumbled across it when walking around town. I wondered did he know anything about it? How long had it been there? Was it a sinkhole, or an earthquake, or… or what? It was only after I’d casually tossed out a whole series of questions that I noticed Tommy had frozen in place, one hand in the fridge and the other on the door. He didn’t seem alarmed or scared, just completely still. I was quiet for a few seconds, and then he took the beer out and handed it to me, shutting the little fridge behind him. He gave no indication that he’d heard me. So I asked again, the pit on 6th and River, what was it’s deal? He looked at me for a while, like he was trying to puzzle out what I had said from a different language, then shrugged, and mumbled something about old roads not being properly maintained. “No,” I said, “the pit. The big hole in the ground.” He just shook his head like I was talking nonsense, and headed off to his room. I tried to drink my beer, but it tasted thick and unpleasant on my tongue.
I wanted to forget it, to ignore the dusty crater that waited in the middle of this tiny town, but I couldn’t. Something about it rubbed at me, like a speck of dirt in my eye, but the more I tried to reach it, the deeper it went. I checked maps of the area, looking to see if any of them featured the odd landmark, but I found ones that went right up to 2008, and none of them had anything marked at that spot, even though the split in the road had clearly been there far longer than a year.
I tried to talk about it, see if anyone else had any idea about what the pit was or why it was there, but when I asked around Joe’s - the only diner in town - everyone reacted just like Tommy.
Mishearing, misunderstanding or just straight-up ignoring me. It wasn’t even like they seemed deliberately evasive; all their reactions seemed genuine, but no-one was able to talk about the pit.
I’d just about given up on getting anything sensible out of the people at Joe’s that afternoon, when an older man walked over to me. I’d seen him around a bit, though I couldn’t have told you who he was or what he did. He was big, though, with a face that looked chiselled out of limestone. I stopped eating, and waited.
The old man stared at me for what must have been a good twenty seconds, and then he spoke. 
“Nothing for you down there,” he said. “You just go and enjoy your sky.” There was no mistaking the threat in his voice, as if I wasn’t going to have a lot of time left to do so, and I was about to say something when his head suddenly snapped forward, and he spat at my feet. Then he turned and walked away. I looked down, and saw a thick brown lump of mud. Nobody looked over, and I didn’t follow him.
I actually tried to take his advice. I had other things to be worried about, and fundamentally there was no reason for me to be so obsessed with a hole in the ground. It wasn’t even like I needed to travel that road. I was only regularly travelling to Olympia to apply for jobs, and from Tommy’s house the pit was in entirely the other direction. But I started to dream about it.
Dream about walking into the pit, the ground turning to thick, sucking mud underneath me. I’d dream about it filling my mouth, my lungs. I couldn’t breathe.
There was one, I can’t honestly say if it was a dream, but I also can’t bring myself to call it a memory. It was sunny, the middle of the day. I could hear the sound of laughter from somewhere in town, soft voices chatting to each other. A peaceful day. I walked as far as the pit, and for the first time, I crossed the edge and began to climb down into it. It was dry, dusty, and the air felt different from the rest of the town. Slowly, carefully, I walked to the hole in the centre. This bit looked more like a sinkhole, disappearing down into the pitch darkness. It was less than a foot across, and I felt a gentle rush of cool, wet air. I sat there in silence, listening, convinced I could hear something, but there was only silence. I leaned closer, my head directly over the hole, and I heard it. And then I did what it told me to.
I took my hand, and I reached down into the darkness. Down and down, until my whole arm was inside, up to the shoulder. It was damp and cold, with the rough stone sides scraping my skin, but my hand was stretched as far as I could, and it still gripped nothing but empty air. Then the hole began to close, and all at once the spell was broken. I tried to pull my arm out, to get free, but it held me tight. Not quite crushing me, but holding me in place. I screamed and cried for help, looking around for anyone who might be able to hear me, but the only people walking by seemed utterly oblivious to what was happening. Then I felt it, something brushing against my hand from below it in the hole. Teeth. Wet, blunt teeth, which quickly gave way to a rough, slender tongue that wrapped itself around my hand and snaked up my arm, as though tasting me.
Then, without warning I felt it snap back into the darkness, taking some of the skin with it, and my arm was abruptly released.
The next thing I remember I was lying in bed. I want to say I had just woken up and it was all a dream, but I was fully dressed, dusty, and with long, thin scratches that snaked around my arm.
[…]
It was the night before I left that it happened. 17th June 2008. I’d got all my things boxed up and ready to go. I had the keys to my new place. All I had to do was get one more good night’s sleep.
Instead I was woken up about two in the morning by the sound of the front door closing. I called out, but Tommy didn’t respond. I searched the house to make sure no-one had broken in, but the place was empty. I was alone. Tommy’s business was his own, I decided, and was about to return to bed when I saw a shadow pass by the window. Then another. I quietly moved to the door and pushed it open, looking out into the street to see if I could figure out what was going on.
There aren’t a lot of street lights in Bucoda, and at night, when all the houses are dark it can get very eerie indeed. I was close enough to see the figures moving down the road, though. They walked casually, like they were just going for a stroll, but there were a lot of them. Maybe the whole town. Walking out of their houses and trailers, and down the unlit streets. I knew exactly where they were going, and I just couldn’t stop myself following them.
I don’t know how the whole town was able to get inside the pit. There must have been hundreds of them, piled high, and encrusted with mud. They did not move, though their eyes shone so brightly in my torch that they must have been alive. None of them made a sound, though I could feel a warmth and shuddering below my feet, as though the earth itself was screaming.
Without warning one of their heads snapped towards me. It was a young woman who had lived the next road over, and whose name I had never learned. She stared at me, eyes suddenly alive with terror, and began to scream. The instant she did, she disappeared, pulled into the ground, cutting the sound off before it had even begun. I turned and ran, back to the house. I wanted to drive away, but I couldn’t bear to be outside. So I hid, under my bed the rest of the night, and felt the ground rock gently beneath me.
I don’t know if Tommy returned the next day. As soon as it was light outside, I leapt into my car, and began to drive away. I tried to, at least. I didn’t want to see the pit again, I really didn’t. But I did. It was empty, as before, like the previous night had never happened. But it was bigger. And the road had swelled to encompass it. There was someone else looking at it, though. An elderly woman, face pinched and thoughtful, stood at the edge looking down. I didn’t recognise her, or the car she stood next to. She definitely wasn’t from Bucoda. Sat in the car next to her, I could see a young man who had clearly been crying. I couldn’t get over how blue his eyes were. The old woman caught my eye, and looked from me, to the pit, and back again. I thought about saying something when she gestured for me to leave, and I did. I decided that I was no part of whatever was happening, so I drove away, and didn’t look back.
That night, the earthquake struck that destroyed Bucoda entirely, so I guess I’ll never know what was going on. And honestly? I’m glad.
ARCHIVIST
Statement ends.
[…]
